>> Jem Young: All right,
we are in a server now.
So, let's just run a quick exercise.
>> Jem Young: Just go out on your server.
Just go ahead and run top.
>> Jem Young: So, I'll do that now.
>> Jem Young: Top.
Top is, think of it as the equivalent
of Activity Monitor on Mac,
or your Task Manager on Windows.
It just tells you what's
happening on your system,
what's using up a lot of processes.
I use top quite often
if the system's slow.
We can see, nodes eating up two cores of
my CPU, or it's eating up all my RAM,
things like that.
Top is just one of those utilities
you have in your belt just to see to
see what's going on in my system.
There is something called htop,
which is a little bit cleaner.
And to quit out of top, just hit q.
>> Jem Young: So, again, top to get in.
Just type q to quit.
So, let's see if htop is installed.
>> Speaker 2: I had to install it.
>> Jem Young: It's not installed.
So, to install it let's just say apt-get.
Apt-get is the package manager for Ubuntu.
Install htop.
>> Speaker 2: Do you
have to type get anymore?
>> Jem Young: I guess you don't.
I guess [CROSSTALK].
Nice.
They really flying along.
Okay, so, now we can say htop,
which is a prettier version of top.
>> Jem Young: And htop is pretty popular.
I tend to use it a bit more than top,
just cuz it's nicer to look at,
easier to recognize.
But, again,
top is gonna be installed on most Linux
distributions without installing anything.
So, it's good to know
kinda the core utilities.
So, anything interesting happening?
Not really.
We're actually using,
>> Jem Young: No,
nothing really interesting happening,
cuz there's nothing running.
Just basic system commands, so far.
>> Jem Young: And to quit out of htop,
just type q, just like normal.